Section 1. Statistical Test

1.1 Which statistical test did you use to analyse the NYC subway data? Did you use a one-tail or a two-tail P value? What is the null hypothesis? What is your p-critical value?

	-->I used a two tailed Mann-Whitney U test, whith a p critical value of .05. The null hypothesis states that the distribution of subway ridership volume by hour (although not with respect to time of day) is not effected by the presence of rain. (More generally, the null hypothesis is the proposition that a certain subset of data is not statistically unique as compared to the general population.)

1.2 Why is this statistical test applicable to the dataset? In particular, consider the assumptions that the test is making about the distribution of ridership in the two samples.

	-->The Mann Whitney U test assumes two independent, randomly  That is, it tells us if the presence of rain has a significant impact on the time of day that people ride the subway.

1.3 What results did you get from this statistical test? These should include the following numerical values: p-values, as well as the means for each of the two samples under test.

	-->Mean with no rain: 1105.5
	-->Mean with rain: 1090.3
	-->p value: 0.0249

1.4 What is the significance and interpretation of these results?

	-->With a p critical value of 0.05 (divided by 2 for a 2 tailed test) the given p value of .0249 "passes" test, indicating that there is a significant difference in the distribution of ridership on rainy days as compaired to ordinary days. More specifically, these results would indicate that there are more riders on rainy days. These results are confirmed by the histogram, which also demonstrates a significant difference in ridership between rainy and clear days. 

Section 2. Linear Regression

2.1 What approach did you use to compute the coefficients theta and produce prediction for ENTRIESn_hourly in your regression model:
    
    Gradient descent (as implemented in exercise 3.5)
    OLS using Statsmodels
    Or something different?

	-->Gradient decent was used to compute the coefficients of theta. 

2.2 What features (input variables) did you use in your model? Did you use any dummy variables as part of your features?

	--> The following features were used as input variables:
		-presence of rain
		-precipitation levels
		-mean temperature for the day
	-->A column of 1s was added as a dummy variable.

2.3 Why did you select these features in your model? We are looking for specific reasons that lead you to believe that the selected features will contribute to the predictive power of your model.

    Your reasons might be based on intuition. For example, response for fog might be: “I decided to use fog because I thought that when it is very foggy outside people might decide to use the subway more often.”
    Your reasons might also be based on data exploration and experimentation, for example: “I used feature X because as soon as I included it in my model, it drastically improved my R2 value.”  
	
	--> Rain is a good candidate because fewer people will choose to walk to their destination when it is raining and therefore more people will ride the subway, increasing the hourly entries. 
	--> Level of precipitation 

2.4 What are the coefficients (or weights) of the features in your linear regression model?
	

2.5 What is your model’s R2 (coefficients of determination) value?
	.403

2.6 What does this R2 value mean for the goodness of fit for your regression model? Do you think this linear model to predict ridership is appropriate for this dataset, given this R2  value?
	This R^2 value is relatively high, and indicates a poor fit for the regression model. The linear model does not appear to be a sufficient method to predict ridership for this dataset.


Section 3. Visualization
	

Please include two visualizations that show the relationships between two or more variables in the NYC subway data. You should feel free to implement something that we discussed in class (e.g., scatter plots, line plots, or histograms) or attempt to implement something more advanced if you'd like.
	

Remember to add appropriate titles and axes labels to your

plots. Also, please add a short description below each figure commenting on the key insights depicted in the figure.

3.1 One visualization should contain two histograms: one of  ENTRIESn_hourly for rainy days and one of ENTRIESn_hourly for non-rainy days.

    You can combine the two histograms in a single plot or you can use two separate plots.
    If you decide to use to two separate plots for the two histograms, please ensure that the x-axis limits for both of the plots are identical. It is much easier to compare the two in that case.
    For the histograms, you should have intervals representing the volume of ridership (value of ENTRIESn_hourly) on the x-axis and the frequency of occurrence on the y-axis. For example, you might have one interval (along the x-axis) with values from 0 to 1000. The height of the bar for this interval will then represent the number of records (rows in our data) that have ENTRIESn_hourly that fall into this interval.

    Remember to increase the number of bins in the histogram (by having larger number of bars). The default bin width is not sufficient to capture the variability in the two samples. 

3.2 One visualization can be more freeform. Some suggestions are:

    Ridership by time-of-day or day-of-week
    Which stations have more exits or entries at different times of day

Section 4. Conclusion

Please address the following questions in detail. Your answers should be 1-2 paragraphs long.

4.1 From your analysis and interpretation of the data, do more people ride
the NYC subway when it is raining or when it is not raining? 
 
    More people ride the subway when it is not raining. 

4.2 What analyses lead you to this conclusion? You should use results from both your statistical
tests and your linear regression to support your analysis.
    T test

Section 5. Reflection

Please address the following questions in detail. Your answers should be 1-2 paragraphs long.

5.1 Please discuss potential limitations and/or issues with the methods
of your analysis, include limitations of and/or issues with the:

    Dataset:
	--> There are a lot of holes in the dataset. 
	--> 
    Linear regression model:
	--> Many features in the dataset are likely to influence ridership, but do not follow linear trends, or even consistent trends. For example, it is impossible for 
    Statistical tests:
	--> The set of statistical tests use can only inform us of basic distribution and 

5.2 (Optional) Do you have any other insight about the dataset that you would like to share with us?
	-Looking at the hour data, there appear to be clusters... (look into this more by doing some clustering analysis on python or R)
